Introduction
------------

Piazza is a set of open source, cloud-based services aimed at helping users (developers) build
GeoInt applications and sevices. These services are exposed via REST endpoints, providing
developers with the ability to:

* _Load data into the system._ -- Given a reference to an external data source, Piazza can extract metadata and
other information about that data and record it locally. Piazza now "knows"
about that data. These data sources can be files, such as a GeoTIFF in an S3 bucket, or features, such as from a Shapefile
or PostGIS databse. (Note that while Piazza typically needs to read the data source's contents,
it does not need to store a copy of it locally.)

* _Access data from the system._ -- Having loaded data into the system, Piazza can create access points such as OGC endpoints
or download links, so users can access the data.

* _Search data within the system._ -- Piazza stores the metadata about the data sources, allowing users to submit queries
and recieve in return a list of data resources matching the criteria.

* _Execute external services._ -- Users will wish to execute external services, such as querying a gazeteer for a given location
or extracting vector features from an image. Services can be registered by providing endpoints, descriptions,
and parameter lists, and then Piazza can execute these services on the user's behalf. The services can reference
data loaded into Piazza or externally via URL.

* _Detect events and trigger actions._ -- Piazza allows users to define "types" of events, such as the loading
of a new file within a certain bounding box or the successful completion of an external service; the events
can be generated from within the system or sent to the system from the outside. Users can then define
actions to be taken when certain event conditions are met, thus allowing Piazza to be responsible
for executing simple "workflows" of activities.

Piazza is not unique in its ability to offer these services. Developers could, for example, use a message queueing system
to implement their own eventing and triggering system, or could stand up their own WPS server for invoking external services.
It is our position, however, that in many cases developers shouldn't have to 

All of these services are 