Piazza is an open-source framework and tool-suite enabling rapid geospatial information systems (GIS) solutions for the enterprise.   It is designed to do the heavy lifting needed by developers moving solutions to the cloud.  Piazza aims to support Non Person Entities (NPEs), such as GEOINT applications, systems and services built to support the mission in the areas of defense, intel, humanitarian and disaster relief.  It does this by focusing on bridging the gap between legacy approaches and cloud based applications.

Implementing scalability for existing algorithms and web services is typically done when built for the enterprise, but sometimes, these approaches are not accessible for various reasons. It might cost too much to allocate multiple resources or to obtain a larger EC2 instance. Also, the user service or algorithm might not be architected to handle multiple requests or requests containing large datasets. Even if it can handle multiple user requests concurrently, it may have bottlenecks as it tries to process large datasets.

For algorithms and web services which are not scalable for the enterprise, Piazza provides capabilities to help existing algorithms and web services deploy and be executable in the cloud without having to be fully ready to handle these enterprise challenges.    Piazza provides data accessibility using OGC standards, load balancing of legacy algorithms, on-demand scalability and orchestration support of algorithms and services without the need for any new infrastructure.

With the enablement of the cloud, it can become difficult to locate existing deployed algorithms and web services that can be useful in the cloud to support the mission.  Using Piazza, existing registered web services and algorithms can be located so users can identify and use capabilities which already exist to support the mission.

Piazza does this by providing a simple REST API to access geospatial enterprise tools and capabilities.  This allows for the flexible deployment of algorithms and a framework for doing common, but often complex, geospatial work.  It also provides repeatable orchestration support to combine individual tools and algorithms to solve common geospatial challenges and to support this mission.
 
Using Piazza, NPEs can register/execute algorithms, obtain the data results and load and access data using Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) standards or by leveraging the API to access data results.   It also provides support for load balancing of legacy algorithms without the need for new infrastructure.  Piazza aides to lower the barrier of entry of GIS solutions into the enterprise by simplifying integration work and providing on-demand enterprise scalability.

Piazza is part of the Venice Project, an open source community focused on building cloud-based frameworks,
tools, applications, and other initiatives in support of Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT) needs.

We welcome your interest, questions, and participation! Contact us at mailto:venice@radiantblue.com[venice@radiantblue.com].
